PURPOSE
The intent of this document is to provide an overview of the academic promotions process for applications to Levels
C, D and E at Curtin University. It contains tools and tips to guide and support you as you prepare your application for
promotion.
1. PROCESS OVERVIEW
The academic promotion process is supported by the Academic Promotions Procedures, available on the Curtin
University ‘Find a policy’ webpage. The process is managed by People and Culture and there is one round of
promotion for Levels C, D and E each year.
Promotion is assessed:
 Level C: by the relevant Faculty Academic Promotions Committee (Australian campuses) or Global
Academic Promotions Committee (Global campuses)
 Level D & E: by the University Academic Promotions Committee (Australian Campuses) or Global
Academic Promotions Committee (Global campuses).
Where the Faculty Academic Promotions Committee, University Academic Promotions Committee or Global
Academic Promotions Committee are referred to, they will be known as ‘the committee’.
Promotion is approved by the Provost at Level C and the Vice-Chancellor at Levels D and E.
Applicants will provide evidence of sustained performance and achievement relative to opportunity that aligns with
the promotion Level being sought and associated excellence benchmarks, as outlined in the Academic Capability
Framework. Appropriate consideration will be given by Committee members to the context and opportunities
available at each Global campus when assessing applications made at Global campuses.
Applicants who are employed in a Teaching Academic role would not normally address the research category,
however applicants may choose to do so.
Applicants who are employed in a Research Academic role are required to address the teaching category.
It is recommended you commence collating your evidence and documentation, and meet with your Head of School
(HOS) and Pro Vice-Chancellor (PVC), well before the call for applications. The due date has been carefully considered
and late applications will only be considered under exceptional circumstances. If you are having difficulties please
contact People and Culture as soon as possible.
While a successful promotion outcome is validation of your sustained high performance at Curtin, it will not have
direct influence on your contract status or any plans for change within your School or Faculty.
In all promotions documentation, where the applicant is not Faculty-based the PVC means the relevant Executive
Manager or the Global PVC and the HOS means the relevant Head of Area (or equivalent).
2. ELIGIBILITY
Full-time and part-time continuing and fixed-term academic staff are eligible to apply for promotion. You need to
have completed 12 months continuous service since your appointment at Curtin or your most recent successful
application for promotion at Curtin, however it usually takes a period of 2 years of working at Curtin to show
evidence of sustained performance and impact.
2023 GUIDE & CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO LEVELS C, D & E
4
CRICOS Provider Code 00301J Last updated 20/02/2023
There are exceptional circumstances where an application may be accepted sooner. If you believe this may apply to
you, provide a written application to your Pro Vice-Chancellor or relevant area head, providing evidence of your
achievements since your last promotion or appointment. If satisfied there are compelling reasons to support your
application proceeding, the PVC may endorse this.
APPLYING AFTER AN UNSUCCESSFUL APPLICATION
Unsuccessful applicants will not normally be eligible to apply for promotion in the next round.
In exceptional circumstances, an application will be accepted after only one year. In this instance, you must provide a
written application to your Pro Vice-Chancellor providing evidence of your achievements since your last promotion.
The PVC may approve the submission of the application for further consideration if satisfied there are compelling
reasons.
PROMOTION WITHOUT A DOCTORAL DEGREE
Promotion to Levels C, D and E normally requires a doctoral degree. A case for equivalence must be made to the
Provost by the Head of School or equivalent and the Pro Vice-Chancellor, according to the University’s Equivalence of
Qualifications Procedures, prior to an application being submitted. If your case is not supported, your application for
promotion will not progress to the committee.
If your role is Teaching Academic Clinical or Professional you are not contractually required to hold a doctoral degree
for promotion to Levels C, D or E.
APPLYING FOR A HIGHER LEVEL THAN THE NEXT
Normally, applications are to be made from one Level to the next. In exceptional circumstances, a request to apply
for promotion to a Level higher than the next can be made.
Promotion to the higher Level than the next is based on demonstrating evidence of sustained performance and
achievement relative to opportunity that aligns with the promotion Level being sought and associated excellence
benchmarks, as outlined in the Academic Capability Framework.
For example, Kim is currently a Level B and has applied for promotion to Level D. Kim must demonstrate evidence of
sustained performance and achievement at Level D.
If you are applying for a higher Level than the next then you will only be considered for promotion at the Level being
sought. That is, using the example above, Kim’s application will be reviewed by the committee for promotion to Level
D only.
3. PROMOTION CATEGORIES
In your application you are required to address each of the below three categories: Teaching, Research and
Engagement.
 Teaching & Research staff must address Teaching, Research and Engagement.
 Research Academic staff must address Teaching, Research and Engagement.
 Teaching Academic staff must address Teaching and Engagement; however you do not need to address
Research, but must address ISoLT (one of the capability areas under Teaching).
The types of evidence required are outlined in the Academic Capability Framework. You are not expected to address
every capability area. The ACF offers applicants flexibility and opportunities for acknowledgement of academic
activities; for example, much emphasis is placed on building teaching and research capability through activities such
as mentoring and career sponsorship of colleagues, as well as influential leadership to build teams, cross-disciplinary
collaborations and cross-campus collaborations. The University remains focussed on the quality and impact of
2023 GUIDE & CHECKLIST FOR PROMOTION TO LEVELS C, D & E
5
CRICOS Provider Code 00301J Last updated 20/02/2023
outcomes and achievements in the categories of Teaching, Research and Engagement, in relation to the academic
Level being sought.
STATEMENTS AGAINST THE CATEGORIES
Please note the following formatting requirements – Calibri font, 11 point with single spacing and narrow
(1.27cm) margins. Any pages over the limits (3 pages for key achievements and category statements and 1
page for your leadership statement) will be removed from your application.
You have 3 pages in which to address your key achievements and your statements against the categories; these
pages may be used as required. When addressing the categories, make clear, concise, evidence-based
statements that highlight the quality outcomes achieved in your duties. Clarify whether your activities are at
School, Faculty, University, state, national or international Level.
Statements must be made against the following headings:
 Key Achievements Since Last Application for Promotion or Appointment at Curtin
 Teaching
 Research
 Engagement
 Leadership Statement For Level D – Associate Professor Or Level E – Professor Only
Key Achievements:
 highlight your achievements in the past 3 years; and
 state achievements since your last application for promotion or being appointed to Curtin; and
 provide evidence of sustained performance and achievement relative to opportunity that aligns with
excellence benchmarks for the promotion Level being sought, as outlined in the Academic Capability
Framework.
Teaching
Capability areas: building teaching capability, developing high quality curricula and assessment, delivering excellent
teaching and student support, and engaging in scholarship and innovation.
Please note that the Academic Promotions Committees are particularly interested in seeing how you address
feedback from students or from peer review in the Teaching Category. Normally this would occur through comments
made by the Unit Coordinator in student eVALUate results, actions taken after Peer Review or alternatively you can
include comments in your Teaching statement.
Research
Capability areas: building research capability, initiating and sustaining programs of ‘researcher-driven’ and/or
‘demand-driven’ research, generating value and impact through research outputs, and enhancing the accessibility
and impact of research to external stakeholders.
Engagement
Capability areas: fostering a positive and inclusive workplace environment, advancing the profession and discipline,
collaborating with external stakeholders, strengthening connections with global partners and campuses, and valuesled leadership.
